> **sp_BlitzFirst – What are the server waiting for?**
```
exec [dbo].[sp_BlitzFirst] @expertmode=1,@sincestartup=1,@checkprocedurecache=1
```

> **sp_BlitzWho _ Who is causing the immediate problem?**


> **sp_BlitzCache – Which queries should be tuned?**
```
EXEC sp_BlitzCache @SortOrder = 'duration'
```
```
EXEC sp_BlitzCache @SortOrder = 'cpu'
```
```
EXEC sp_BlitzCache @SortOrder = 'reads'
```
```
EXEC sp_BlitzCache @SortOrder = 'writes'
```
**Other Parameters**
–@Top – by default, we only look at the top 10 queries, but you can use a larger number here like @Top = 50. Just know that the more queries you analyze, the slower it goes.

–@ExpertMode = 1 – turns on the more-detailed analysis of things like memory grants. (Some of this information is only available in current SP/CUs of SQL Server 2012/2014, and all 2016.)

–@ExportToExcel = 1 – excludes result set columns that would make Excel blow chunks when you copy/paste the results into Excel, like the execution plans. Good for sharing the plan cache metrics.

> **sp_BlitzIndex – How are my indexes doing?**

> **sp_Blitz – Is this server setup correctly?**




## Decoder ring for the 6 most common wait types

>
CXPACKET/cxconsumer: queries going parallel to read a lot of data or do a lot of CPU work.
Sort by CPU and by READS.

LCK%: locking, so look for long-running queries. Sort by DURATION, and look for
the warning of "Long Running, Low CPU." That's probably a query being blocked.

PAGEIOLATCH: reading data pages that aren't cached in RAM. Sort by READS.

RESOURCE_SEMAPHORE: queries can't get enough workspace memory to start running.
Sort by MEMORY GRANT, although that isn't available in older versions of SQL.

SOS_SCHEDULER_YIELD: CPU pressure, so sort by CPU.

WRITELOG: writing to the transaction log for delete/update/insert (DUI) work.
Sort by WRITES.
>